---
title: Computer Vision Applications for Mixed Reality Headsets workshop at CVPR 2019
description: Overview and schedule of the Computer Vision Applications for Mixed Reality Headsets workshop, to be delivered at the CVPR Conference on June 2019.
author: fbogo
ms.author: febogo
ms.date: 1/9/2019
ms.topic: article
keywords: event, research mode, cvpr, computer vision, research, HoloLens
---

# Computer Vision Applications for Mixed Reality Headsets
Long Beach (CA), June 2019

Organized in conjunction with [CVPR 2019](http://cvpr2019.thecvf.com/)

## Organizers
* Marc Pollefeys
* Federica Bogo
* Johannes Schoenberger
* Osman Ulusoy

## Overview
Mixed reality headsets are becoming powerful platforms to develop computer vision applications. 
One example is given by the Microsoft HoloLens headset. HoloLens Research Mode gives access to all raw image sensor streams -- including depth and IR --  to enable computer vision research on device.

As Research Mode is now available since last May, we are starting to see several interesting computer vision demos and applications being developed for HoloLens.
The goal of this workshop is to bring together students and researchers interested in this topic, both enabling them to share their demos and applications, learn from each other and enable others to benefit from their insights to build or port their own applications to mixed reality.

We encourage submissions on the topics of ego-centric object recognition, hand and user tracking, activity recognition, SLAM, 3D reconstruction, scene understanding, sensor-based localization, navigation and more.

## Paper Submission
* Paper submission deadline: May 1
* Notification to authors: May 15

* Paper submissions should use the CVPR template and are limited to 4 pages plus references. In addition, we encourage the authors to submit a video showcasing their application.
* Submissions can be uploaded to the CMT: https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/2019/CVforMR2019
* Submissions of previously published work are allowed (including work accepted to the main CVPR 2019 conference). 

* A few submissions will be selected for oral presentation at the workshop. However, we strongly encourage all the authors to present their work during the demo session.
* _The best papers will be awarded with a special -- rigorously mixed-reality -- prize._

## Schedule
TBC.
