# The Making of Galaxy Explorer for HoloLens 2

Welcome to the journey of how we are updating Galaxy Explorer for HoloLens 2. [Galaxy Explorer](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/mixed-reality/galaxy-explorer "Galaxy Explorer") was originally developed as an open source application for HoloLens (1st gen) through the Share Your Idea program, and is one of the first mixed reality experiences many people had. Now we are updating it for the [new and exciting capabilities of HoloLens 2](https://www.microsoft.com/hololens/hardware).

As one of the Microsoft Mixed Reality Studios(1), we usually develop commercial grade solutions and are developing & testing on target platforms throughout the creative and development process. We now have the unique situation where don’t yet have access to HoloLens 2 devices, but are excited to start the updates to Galaxy Explorer. We're embarking on this project utilizing the frameworks and tools (like [MRTK v2](https://microsoft.github.io/MixedRealityToolkit-Unity/Documentation/GettingStartedWithTheMRTK.html)) as they become available to us and the community - and we want to bring you along for the ride.

Just like the original Galaxy Explorer, we will be [open sourcing the project on GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/GalaxyExplorer) to ensure that the community has full access. We will also be documenting our journey here in complete transparency about the ways in which we undertook porting from MRTK v1 to MRTK v2, how we enhanced the experience based on the new features available in HoloLens 2, and how we ensured that Galaxy Explorer remained a multi-platform experience. So whether you're viewing Galaxy Explorer on HoloLens (1st gen), HoloLens 2, a Windows Mixed Reality headset or on your Windows 10 desktop, we want to ensure that you're having an immersive experience and enjoy the journey as much as we are!

This page will expand as we progress through the project, and we'll link out to more detailed articles, code, design artefacts, additional MRTK v2 documentation, etc. to provide you with an insider's look at the project.



(1) Microsoft Mixed Reality Studio teams - located in the Americas, Europe and Asia-Pacific - are experts in user experience design, holographic computing, AR/VR technologies, and 3D development; including 3D asset creation, DirectX, Unity and Unreal. We help envision desired futures, design, build and deliver solutions, while enabling customers to create measurable impact across their organization. The studios work closely with over 22,000 Microsoft Services professionals for enterprise application integration, adoption, operations and support.
